Passive Client Information Gathering
When leveraging passive information
gathering techniques,
we do not directly interact
with our intended targets.
For example, in a recent engagement we
were tasked with attempting to compromise
corporate employees with client-side
attacks and various phishing techniques.
However, we were not allowed to
make phone contact with employees.
Given that restriction,
we Googled for various known
external corporate IP addresses
and found one on a site that
hosts collected user agent data
from various affiliate sites.
This information, similar to
that shown in this screenshot,
revealed the underlying operating system
version of a corporate client machine:
It also revealed the browser type
and version along with installed plugins
as listed in the User Agent string.
We modified an existing exploit and
launched it against one of our lab machines
running the same operating system
and browser version as our target.
The test was a success
so we used the exploit in a client-side
attack against our corporate target
and were rewarded with
a reverse shell.
We can find this type of information
fairly often, on websites, in IRC logs
and even in photos
posted to social media.
Time spent doing research is never wasted.